## Barder Responses
### Larry Feng

#### What was the Ajaoukuta Steel Works? How did it illustrate the transition from a focus on policies to institutions? #7

  Ajaoukuta Steel Works is one of the largest investments in steel production in the world. It cost more than 5 billion dollars and costs the Nigerian taxpayer 29 million dollars per year just for wages. So, according to the economic model, having both capital and labour should produce output and growth, but Ajaoukuta has not produced any steel at all. 
The investment isn't producing any output because of poor management and endemic corruption. The development business concluded that the issue wasn't policies but institutions after the Washington Consensus wasn't working. This branched out into many experiments such as: huge aid spending on technical cooperation, institutional strengthening, and various kinds of capacity building. Most of this, however, has been a failure. Many evaluations of the effects of huge aid spending all end up finding nothing. Barder believes that one possible explanation for this is that we haven't worked out with institutions are most important for low-income countries. Mainly, it is thought that we should focus on land tenure, property rights, public financial management, procurement, corruption, etc. But if the issue was that we didn't know which institutions were important, then it's an even greater problem in which people know little about how a country with weak institutions can best change them, nor whether there is any useful role an outsider can do to affect the process. 

#### Who was Haile Sellasie? What is the significance of Kapuściński's book The Emperor? How did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change? Do you agree? #13??

  Haile Sellasie was the emperor of the last great feudal dynasty of Ethiopia, ruling until he was overthrown in 1974. Kapuściński's book, The Emperor, detailed on the few remaining days of Emperor Haile. The author used a combination of “historical accounts” and “fictional narrative”, making the like of the emperor sound like a dark fairy tale. “All decisions came from the Emperor, all questions came from the top down.” So, Kapuściński gives an inside look of the internal logic of these regimes, which could only exists by extracting economic value from the population, and suppress any movements towards a more inclusive political and social institution which could threaten the emperor’s position. Ethiopia had a rich, powerful elite that benefited from the economic structure, allowing them to suppress the “co-evolution of more plural and more equal economic and social institutions.” And, when countries have a resource, the elites are able to control them and sustain their power. 
