## Larry Feng

#### Nieves et a. use the random forest machine learning method to predict what value globally?  Describe in detail how random forest works.  What is a dasymmetric population allocation? Which geospatial covariates proved to be the most important when predicting global values of where humans reside?

The authors of the paper use the Random Forest technique to predict settlement patterns and high resolution human population density. First, the Random Forest models are an “ensemble, non-parametric modeling approach”, in which the data produces a “forest” of their own classifications, also known as regression trees, and this improves the issue of bagging by using the best of a random selection. This technique also has an advantage which is having fewer “tuning parameters”. So, how does this technique work? It first fits a series of models using the “tuneRF” function with every available covariate and log population density of each census unit as the response variable. Second, this step is a selection process for the resulting Random Forest, but it is also “very conservative” and uses the covariates. Then we use the resulting forest of trees and extract the “covariate importance scores”. The next resulting Random Forest is used to predict on a scale of countries, with a very detailed map of log population densities. Lastly, the Random Forest model trees are distributed accordingly to one or more parallel processing environments and predictions are calculated for each pixel within the country (Taken from my last response, 'Stevens et al. Response'). 

Dasymetric mapping is a geospatial technique to accurately distribute data that has been assigned to arbitrary boundaries. For some research, planning, or policy questions it is important to know how far people may be from places of interest such as parks, roads, or bus stops. It can also be helpful to estimate how many people are within a certain distance from these or other places of interest. The accuracy of dasymetric maps is highly dependent on the data being used as inputs. This map carries the limitations of both the NLCD data, as well as the census population estimates. The NLCD classifies land cover based on satellite imagery, a process that is not 100 percent accurate.

The article states that they were surprised at the imporatnce of climatic and environmental covariates when predicting population density. 
